---
layout: post
title: Writing
categories: writing
author: 
meta: "Writing"
permalink: /writing/
---

#### The children’s palliative care provider of the future: A blueprint to spark, scale and share innovation

**Imperial College London, 2022**  
with Jonty Roland, Madeleine Lambert, Alexandra Shaw, Laura Dale-Harris and Gianluca Fontana  
This policy report sets out an optimistic vision of what a world-class provider of children’s palliative care (CPC) could look like in the future. It proposes nine key features through which providers can innovate to improve access and quality over time, drawing on best practice and trends as described by 50 CPC service leaders in 27 countries, as well as insights from other healthcare sectors.*

[Read the report](https://www.imperial.ac.uk/media/imperial-college/institute-of-global-health-innovation/IGHI_CPC_Report_Final.pdf)

--- 
#### This Too Shall Pass: Collective mourning in the age of Covid-19

**Larger Us, 2020**  
with Alex Evans and Casper ter Kuile  
We argue that in conditions of such widespread loss as the ones we now face, it’s essential that we grieve well - and that this means doing so collectively, not just on our own.

[Read the report](https://www.collectivepsychology.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/04/This-Too-Shall-Pass.pdf)

---
#### Designing systems of care for a modern death

**Lancet Commission on the Value of Death, 2019**   
In order to meaningfully transform our relationship with death and dying – to make it more human-centred, socially-connected and interconnected – we need to take a more relational approach to end of life that encompasses the wider, non-medical ecosystems of care. In other words, we need to take a systemic approach to end of life care.

[Read the article](https://commissiononthevalueofdeath.wordpress.com/2019/11/07/designing-systems-of-care-for-a-modern-death/)

----
#### A trip beyond fear: psychedelics and the end of life

**Open Democracy, 2020**  
with Rosanna Ellis, Sam Gandy and Eddie Jacobs  
We explore how a growing body of scientific evidence suggests that psychedelic substances such as psilocybin - the active ingredient in so-called ‘magic mushrooms’ - could have an important role to play in addressing the psychological and spiritual aspects of end-of-life care in ways that currently go unmet.

[Read the article](https://www.opendemocracy.net/en/transformation/trip-beyond-fear-psychedelics-and-end-life/)

----
#### An atmosphere of grief: living with loss in the Anthropocene

**2019-20**   
This three-part essay collection outlines how we are living through the sixth mass extinction, due to climate change and ecological breakdown. Collectively, we are experiencing unprecedented change and decline within a short time, with visceral feelings and experiences of grief and loss.

However, rather than simply despair in the face of extinction, these experiences of loss, and the resulting collectives forms of mourning are an important transitional step in a changing world.

Although, the scale and depth of change is unique, we have gone through transitions like this before. In Part 1 I described how bad things are. In Part 2, I described how we’ve been here before, and how people have responded in the past. In Part 3, I unpack some of the fundamental framings of grief and loss in the age of the Anthropocene, and put forward some (perhaps) difficult propositions, but with the aim to help us find solidarity and community through collective mourning, in a way that respects and honours our own and other cultures and histories, and enables us to move to another state of being — together — in the face of possible extinction.

[Read part 1](https://medium.com/@IvorWilliams/an-atmosphere-of-grief-5546cbd21f02)  
[Read part 2](https://medium.com/@IvorWilliams/an-atmosphere-of-grief-18e0633def30)  
[Read part 3](https://ivorwilliams.medium.com/an-atmosphere-of-grief-8c31c031a0c7)

----
#### Last orders: pain relief at the end of life

**2016**    
Why we need to re-think what pain is and how drugs can help

[Read the article](https://medium.com/@beinganddying/last-orders-pain-relief-at-the-end-of-life-442a8043cda)

----
#### The latest challenge in design? Create a better way to die

**Quartz, 2015**  
It’s fair to say most of us don’t have a very good relationship with death.

[Read the article](https://qz.com/368257/can-we-redesign-death-to-be-as-innovative-social-and-tech-savvy-as-life/)


## Academic literature

#### The impact of digital health interventions on the psychological outcomes of patients and families receiving paediatric palliative care: A systematic review and narrative synthesis

Archer S, Cheung NHY, Williams I, Darzi A. The impact of digital health interventions on the psychological outcomes of patients and families receiving paediatric palliative care: A systematic review and narrative synthesis. Palliat Med. 2021 Dec;35(10):2017-2023. doi: 10.1177/02692163211026523.